CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Hanami

Any constructive and motivating input is welcome. I want to make contributing to this project as easy and transparent as possible, whether it's:

- Reporting a bug
- Submitting a fix
- Proposing or implementing new features
- Discussing the current state of the code
- Improvements for the documentation

## Develop with Github

Github is used to host code, to track issues and feature requests, as well as accept pull requests.

## All code changes happen through pull requests

Pull requests are the best way to propose changes to the codebase. Any pull request is welcome. Please use the following workflow:

1. Fork the repo and create your branch from `develop`. Based on the type of the related issue name the branch `feature/...`, `qa/...` or `fix/..`. For naming of the branches and styling of the commit messages see also the [documentation](https://docs.hanami-ai.com/other/git_workflow/)
2. Handle all `Acceptance Criteria` of the feature- of qa-issue
3. Write tests if required.
4. Make sure the ci-pipeline is green
5. Issue that pull request

## Any contributions you make will be under the Apache 2 License

In short, when you submit code changes, your submissions are understood to be under the same [Apache 2 License](https://github.com/kitsudaiki/Hanami/blob/develop/LICENSE) that covers the project. Feel free to contact the maintainers by eMail or `Question`-issue, if that's a concern.

## Report bugs using Github's [issues](https://github.com/kitsudaiki/Hanami/issues)

GitHub issues are used to track public bugs. Report a bug by opening a new issue with the `Bug Report` template.

## How to suggest a feature or enhancement

Open an issue with the `Feature`-template, where you describes the feature you would like to see. Also add information, why you need it, and how it should work.

## Use a consistent coding style

Please follow the [Code Styling Guide](https://docs.hanami-ai.com/other/code_styling/) as good as possible. If you see any improvements, like feature which makes the code cleaner or something like this, then please open a `Quality Assurance` issue and describe what could/should be changed.

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under its [Apache 2 License](https://github.com/kitsudaiki/Hanami/blob/develop/LICENSE)

Commit message:

Add (#208): add development documenation
Added short documentation, which hopefully helps
other developers to setup a local environemt, to
build and test the code.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Hanami

Any constructive and motivating input is welcome. I want to make contributing to this project as easy and transparent as possible, whether it's:

- Reporting a bug
- Submitting a fix
- Proposing or implementing new features
- Discussing the current state of the code
- Improvements for the documentation

## Develop with Github

Github is used to host code, to track issues and feature requests, as well as accept pull requests.

## All code changes happen through pull requests

Pull requests are the best way to propose changes to the codebase. Any pull request is welcome. Please use the following workflow:

1. Fork the repo and create your branch from `develop`. Based on the type of the related issue name the branch `feature/...`, `qa/...` or `fix/..`. For naming of the branches and styling of the commit messages see also the [documentation](https://docs.hanami-ai.com/other/git_workflow/)
2. Handle all `Acceptance Criteria` of the feature- of qa-issue
3. Write tests if required.
4. Make sure the ci-pipeline is green
5. Issue that pull request

## Any contributions you make will be under the Apache 2 License

In short, when you submit code changes, your submissions are understood to be under the same [Apache 2 License](https://github.com/kitsudaiki/Hanami/blob/develop/LICENSE) that covers the project. Feel free to contact the maintainers by eMail or `Question`-issue, if that's a concern.

## Report bugs using Github's [issues](https://github.com/kitsudaiki/Hanami/issues)

GitHub issues are used to track public bugs. Report a bug by opening a new issue with the `Bug Report` template.

## How to suggest a feature or enhancement

Open an issue with the `Feature`-template, where you describes the feature you would like to see. Also add information, why you need it, and how it should work.

## Developtment documentation

To setup a local environment to work on the code, see the [deveolper documentation](https://docs.hanami-ai.com/how_to/development/)

## Use a consistent coding style

Please follow the [Code Styling Guide](https://docs.hanami-ai.com/other/code_styling/) as good as possible. If you see any improvements, like feature which makes the code cleaner or something like this, then please open a `Quality Assurance` issue and describe what could/should be changed.

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under its [Apache 2 License](https://github.com/kitsudaiki/Hanami/blob/develop/LICENSE)
